Title: Data Contracts in PBI and Fabric - Ep.411 - Power BI tips
Channel: Power BI Tips
Uploaded: 20250402   Duration: 49:00
Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fyGLEcq8oX4
Captions: auto (en)  [auto-generated: no speaker labels, expect transcription errors]
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Good morning and welcome back to the Explicit Measures podcast with Tommy and Mike. Hello everyone and welcome back. How you doing Mike? How you doing Tommy? I'm doing well. Thank you very much. Thanks for asking. It's another early episode. We are up a little bit early today. We are doing a recorded episode. So this is recorded episode. Tommy and I are doing some traveling at this time. So, we won't be able to make these meetings or these podcast calls. So, for that being said, this is uh going to be a maybe a little bit shorter of a topic around uh some of our main items. We don't really have any news items for this one. We're just going to jump into our kind of our main topic today. How do you feel about that one, Tommy? You know what? I love

it. I I think it's just hard to do the news one when it's a podcast. Uh just like how much television's changing too where Yeah. when it's Especially when it's recorded. Yeah. So, you love love to do everything. But dude, this is a topic that I'm really happy with some of the latest topics that we've done. We're diving into some heavy heavy things. We I think a couple episodes ago, we had discussed this idea of like, you know, how do you transition data from one person to another and so that's kind of where the topic came out of the comic the spun out of what is a data contract or unpacking what data contracts mean in lie of items inside fabric. And so we have a number of control mechanisms that are inside fabric for security, but

security just means you can kind of read it or not or interact with it or not. That's not necessarily a data contract. And so, you know, Tommy, you said something I I believe it was um in an earlier podcast episode. You're talking about like how much you're loving one lake cataloges, which is a form of what I think we'll unpack here in a bit around that's part of what a data catal data cataloging is part of a data contract. um what data is in these in this source, what data is um what's the column information in it, what you what is the column name. There is rules around how this data should be used or be built so that way when a consumer consumes the data is they have confidence that the data is um

consistent every time they look at it. So that being said, go ahead Tommy. No, I was going to say this is if you want to hear this is literally from our agile development that we talked about and trying to apply things that usually don't fit in the business intelligence world or in the world that we worked in. Um, and trying to apply that to what we do today. So, let's unpack. So, I kind of want to just go through maybe like a for people who haven't heard what data contract is. I think we've we've thrown around this term a couple times on the podcast and I would just like to kind of unpack what it means. And so for me, my definition around this is a data contract is a written or documented maybe not written

per se, but like a documented agreement around what data I'm giving you. And it comes with things beyond just like this is the columns I will give you and this is the kind of data that's in there. And I and when I think about, you know, specifying things in SQL, it data contracts remind me of like the the SQL create table phase, right? This is the table. These are the columns I'm going to tell you. You know, this is a column and it's a varchchar 90, right? This is a varchchar 50, right? So I'm I'm this is a boolean on this column. This is a string on this v car on that one or whatever. There's data types that are associated with columns. And so sometimes you have I mean I think about this table creation experience in SQL

because some columns get you know a

whole long line of text but what happens if the text is longer than the data you're bringing it to in the column. So sometimes you have this a feature where you truncate data or the text field gets too long you can't store the whole thing and you just kind of abbreviate it and put what's left is in into the cell in SQL. So I think that's kind of the expectation here um in this article that I'm going to share in the description. And so this will be in the description of the video. Um, ATLAN, I think is how you say them, uh, is got a really good article around like what is a data contract, but they talk a little bit more about um, than just the data contract. It talks about what it is, why

they're important, and then it says what is inside the data contract, the schema, the semantics, a service level agreement, which is something I actually really like to talk about in the when I talk about contracts. That's one of the main things I think about when I like how often is the data refreshed and what happens when it's when it's wrong. Who's who's maintain? What's the owner of the data? And then they also talk about here something here around like the metadata of that of that source of information. You know, what does the governance look like? And so I think we let me let me just pause right there. I'm seeing a lot of things Tommy like what's your thought on these topics? Like what's your impression data contract? So, and especially you may read this and it

really I feel like this is what we're I'll call like the classic data contract because really the bulk of this is very technical in terms of implementation and agreement to it. Again, you're talking about the metadata. We're talking about uh how um how large a column can be or how many values can be in it. uh what are theireliers that are allowed, right? And those are all a lot of things that from the business side is fine, but from a per column point of view, this is much more on the developer on the technical side. It's really not until the very end do you actually get into I think more of the the meat of the thing that what people really care about, especially if you're going to put uh an agreement with the business when it comes to again

those SLAs's and the data governance. But it's very very metadata focused in in the um the original idea of a data contract. I disagree with your statement there. I don't think it's technical. You said it's very technical. I don't think it is. I I would probably address like if I had to put like a hierarchy of needs on these things like technical is probably part of it. But I think really the important thing that that I think about data contracts I'm more interested in like the service level agreements. the the security of it and then just having like some I mean you could you could do some very vanilla things in a data contract between one team and another or one person and another right you're kind of inadvertently already making data contracts every time you

publish something to powerpi.com you're kind of in some way making your own data contract it may not be documented but you're the tool allows for aspects of a data contract to exist but you don't even you don't even know you're doing it right no so I agree with you in terms of what we focus on. I'm saying the the the Atlan article and all the research if you were to say define a data contract, it does go heavy usually into the the uh the schema metadata. But no, I'm with you in terms of the data contracts that I focus on or what I try to focus on or is the SLA is going to be that on the governance side of things. I I mean yes this article I mean I think there's schema is part of the solution here like

it's part of the idea you know the semantics of of what they're talking like so yes those are part of the solution but like I don't think it I don't think it makes it technical like I don't I don't agree with that statement around that it's very technical and this article is like really pushing towards technical I think it's just something that they're putting in here or applying with this um so I I don't really understand that part of your comment But um I I mean I think the schema is valid. I think the schema is important to put on top of whatever data contract you're applying. So that does make sense to me. Um so I I don't know. We'll we'll see where this conversation goes. But I want to kind of move forward then. So you

know talking about these different aspects. So starting with like schema, semantics, service level agreement and then metadata. Um the schema is just what columns how many columns do we have? what are the names of said columns and what's the min max length of them right something like that so that that could be very simple when you get into a semantic model when you build a semantic model you've already define a schema already exists for everything it's all there so that's not a problem um I don't see there's any issue with um you know the semantic model has a definition it's a description that's a place where you can add that you could also think about it upstream inside lakehouses as well lakeous also have schemas uh for all the tables as Um, so you know there's a two main areas

that I'm thinking about for where schemas exist, right? The and again you're talking about how technical it is and I don't agree necessarily because in order to make a table in the lakehouse the semantic model has to read the schema and bring it in and just use it like those things. I think I it just comes along with the pattern. So I yeah go ahead. I was going to say I was going to give you a question with this one Tommy like so schema to me just very easy to understand these are the names of the columns this is the kind of data that's in them and it's defined somewhere easy the other things I want to talk about is like semantics so semantics is a little bit differently like these are more I think business

level rules um you know when you provide

definitions to individual columns defining what they mean and so um that's

more of where I want to kind of unpack like the semantic of the schema or the data contract. What do you think about those points? So this this is where it

gets interesting especially that you brought up the one like catalog to me as well and I think this has always been one of the biggest hurdles for a lot of people working in a tool like PowerBI because of the ease of creation, the ease of use is the fact that it is quick to change you. It's very easy to update a column compared to I think a lot of legacy systems. But the problem is the

ownership of this when it uh terms of like I'm creating the model I'm creating the tables for even before the business and maybe their data but I think a lot of times we run in trouble of okay how do we actually define this what are the allowed values and there's a problem

here because I think the biggest struggle that a lot of BI teams have is not the report building it's who owns what and not just who owns owns the data. That's not semantics though. Okay, that's something different. Semantics is not is not who owns any. That's metadata. You're jumping ahead. So like we're talking about semantics right now. Like just focus on the semantics part of it. So like that's the business rules. Like this column cannot be null. This key is identified in the demand the dim user table. Like that's what I'm So I think you're jumping ahead too far. Like the semantics is like defining the business rules of what you expect about the data. So give me your definition. So semantics like it's the b the business entity. So if you read the article, it's talking

about semantics are about capturing the rules of each business domain, right? So I have, you know, sales information, right? This is this is Tommy what you've talked about before in prior options, right? What is a definition of a customer? How do we define it? Is a customer someone who purchases something from us? Is it someone who purchases something from us in the last 6 months, like one year? Like what is that definition? So the semantics of that when we have a table of data and we say customer column or customer table we're defining this information when we say transaction what does that mean there's a language here that all teams must adhere to and you may not agree with like the standard definition you may make up your own definition for your department or whatever you need to

report on well you can't use the word transaction in that you need to think of something else like microtransaction or some other term that defines what you're using but like those those general terms and I think the semantics This is actually where we need a lot of effort and I I don't think fabric does a good job defining the semantics of things. This is where you use things like um like in Python notebooks you would use great expectations to rip through a bunch of data and say hey this this you know customer key column cannot be null and you can test it. It's a test that every time the data loads that is dumb that's it's on it's like it's there. It's that it has passed the test. So to me this is a lot of those things where

um you know um deviation from normal is another example right hey we expect this column to have whatever it's a percentage right okay well that percentage should never be more than 100% if you add up all these items or if you group by this and add it up it should never equal more than 100%. those kind of things um are tests you apply to

the data. And so this is an area where I think a lot of organizations don't have this set up in their environment, but they want it. They want I'm doing a lot of project work right now helping customers figure out where to put data quality or business conditions that require data to be of a certain quality. Does that make sense? No, that's perfect. I'm going to table my tangent because I think you were talking ahead of where we were. Honestly though, my the tangent being and again I'm going to mention it. I want to see if you highly disagree that it's a very chicken or the egg. All those rules and definitions have to come from someone. But no, I I completely right. But do we document it? Do you actually like how many data sets

do you build that has a test that says I'm going to load the table and I'm going to confirm on every data load that we pass this test. You have to build that's all custom. That's all custom stuff. You build like building the tool. And like I said, so again, my argument of the chicken and the egg is who's making those rules and who's agreeing to it. But, you know, I I agree that we never had a process in PowerBI. There's been some uh attempts at it in terms of a um integrated kind of tooling system to do that, especially with a semantic model. Yes, we've never had that. There's other tools that do this kind of like there are tools that you can go by like when you use data bricks data bricks has this thing called assertions

on a table and so data bricks has a feature that when you load data in on a rowby row detail do you assert that this value is of a certain type or data set type and what you can do is you can flag records and say basically add a new column that says this row of data was discovered to not adhere to a data rule or policy. you can flag it and when you flag it, you can come back and you can either filter that information out and move forward. You could fail the job and say, "Don't process the data. There's a problem. You need to fix something." There's like there's different ways or methods on how you'd handle this. But your your comment around who should decide this, it it's a collective decision, right? It's a decision on the

person making the data engineering to build the table and the person consuming the data. Typically, I think the person consuming the data has more vested interest in making sure those rules are right. Does that make sense? No. You would think you would think that they would that's they would have the um bulk of the interest there. Well, if it doesn't work, the person consuming the data comes back to the person who made the data and say it don't work. And then the expectation is if it if it's not running correctly, if you don't state these this is this is another thing. Let me let me go another example here.

working with my kids. Um, hit example here, right? If if

I don't like, so let's say someone's acting up, they're being loud, they're being obnoxious or whatever. If I just walk into a room and just immediately give out a punishment on one of my kids, they're really bent out of shape and like, "That's not fair. I didn't know what was the expectation." So, they get bent out of shape. They get angry at me if I just come in and discipline without any kind of prior expectations as to what's going on. Sure. So, when I drive to someone's house and we have our kids, we're going there and I'm like, "Okay, look, before we get out of the car, here's my expectations on some behavior I expect you guys to do before I go into the house." It's my, you know, family contract or my behavioral contract with

my kids. Like, we want you to be respectful. We want you to be kind. Don't, you know, don't eat with your mouth full. Don't talk about like just things that they do. And you're like, I don't want you to do these things. This is what I want you to do. If you don't have that conversation, there's no responsibility for anyone. And then when you come in and say, "Look, you're being a ding-dong." Like, "Don't do that." Now I have, remember in the car when I said the thing and we said, "We're going to not do this." And they and you did it anyways. This is to me, this is what semantics is. Semantics is the same thing for like two business groups to say, "I'm expecting it to be this way. I and and it's you need to get better at

describing what your expectations are because I don't think anyone and it's very difficult for people to do this. Not done well." And and I I like the kid analogy and I can't tell you how many times I've told my own stakeholders to get you ding-dong for something that they've been working on as well. Right. It does. There there is a wrench here though because on the in principle, you're a thousand% correct. But I want to throw a wrench in here because especially when you're introducing this idea for the first time, these concepts, it's this is much more than simply

saying, hey, you know, don't don't hit your sister because we need those requirements like and not just requirements, but it's like, okay, what are the outliers? What are the things that are the constraints? A lot of teams in business, especially the people you're talking to when we're building, they may not be aware of all the in a sense junk or things that are unnecessary. They just know what their number is because they've done it a certain way. So there is a conversation here that needs to happen that they also have to put work in. And a lot of times you find that a lot of leaders, you know, they're they unless there's someone in operations who's going to represent them, I want to report why am I the one in a sense doing the work?

Yes. is completely essential because you know again to your point uh if we run into something that's not allowed if we run into something that we need to alert again we can't just write that on the fly but we need to have those constraints and we need to have those uh you know in a sense those guidelines but then if I hand someone like okay here's everything we found 25 values when you said that it's you know it's either prospect or sale are we discarding the others and that's just one situation where go, whoa, I I you know, they don't they're not aware of all these things. So, that's what I'm trying to say is the big wrench here is this all has to be established before we even get into nearly anything else. And it's a hard conversation to have

again, especially when you're not dealing with again a data representative. Let me give you another example that I've discovered or or I I agree with Tom I point Tommy. I think I I think you're right onto something here with the the whole idea of like look, the business doesn't necessarily know all the rules that they need. So, couple things. You don't know there's a problem until there's a problem, right? So, I'll give you the data. Like, so let me play out a scenario here. I'm the business. I'm complaining about I don't have data. I can't get data. I can't I need data. Give me data. Give me data. It is like, fine, I'll give you data. Here, I'm going to make a lakehouse. I'm going to make a semantic model. here's your data and the business goes oh great I now

have access to the data and then the business says wait a minute this doesn't this doesn't make sense like I'm trying to do the join tables and like it doesn't it it's not matching or where did this value come from I I don't understand where that came from like and so then the business comes back and says wait a minute something doesn't look right and then there's like this they are asking for the data without any expectations towards the data or not really even understanding the how the data is like related to each other like different tables and things like that sometimes and and again not every business unit is the same. Some business units are great and they have a great understanding of like how their data is woven together and like they understand it and they see it. But when

you abstract the tables of data so far away from the business, sometimes the business doesn't understand how dirty the data is. And so I guess what I'm saying is, you know, you have to start small. you know, you start with very few rules initially and then as you discover them or as you discover the problems, you're going to have to like update these contracts and kind of modernize them a bit and get both teams to agree upon this, right? A common example I find is there's let's call it let's call it Salesforce. Salesforce is pulling data out. Data engineering sucks out the tables. Salesforce has lots of many tables in them. You do the joins the way that Salesforce joins the data together. you now have a final user table or customer table and when the business

gets it, they're like, "Well, this is not right. What why is the data in this column or the data on this row is wrong?" Well, whose problem is it? It's not data engineering's fault. And this is where I think Tommy, you and I get stuck in the middle a lot because we're data engineering and and we get like the blowback of like, well, this is wrong. Like, no, no, no, time out. My data coming to you is exactly as it came from Salesforce. So, business, we're just giving you what's already in there. actually it's you business making the problem because you wrote the wrong data into the column. What you need to go do is go fix your data in Salesforce and that way it comes through the system correctly. But what we find a lot of

times is the business comes back to data engineering and says fix it. And so data engineering builds additional business logic or rules or filtering to fix an existing problem that should have been fixed in the source system. But here's Yeah. So, and what I'm getting hung up on is because I literally had this type of project or situation almost a year ago on our migration. So, and here, but here's the thing. So, I like the idea of the okay, we're going to build as we go. But here's the thing. We can't continue once we find something if we're building as we go until we get the okay or the updated, you know, here's the definition. Okay, we finally found this is what's allowed. But that's not going to only usually, especially with new data, a new contract, that doesn't just

happen one. Oh, I found one column out of everything, right? So here's the thing. Sure. So here's here's the thing. If I'm tasked with building a model or report, and again, this is we're not just talking in your standard run-of-the-mill quick report. This is something that is going to be relied on for a department. Well, we have to have that ample time because that is going to cause long more time to actually get a result. People are coming to me as the report guy, the PowerBI guy, the the conception of that. It's like, okay, here's my table. We get the, you know, data in whatever legacy system or Excel file and it just I I just get it and every time I look on Monday, it's updated. Now you're coming to me every three days and I have to do

you know all this more discovery on what these things are I've never seen before or I have no idea what this definition is. This is taking more work than the Excel file. And this is a common situation where if you come as you go when you're building as you go and you're like oh I I I found a you know a hurdle I need to get the confirmation or I need to get the uh rules from the business. we keep doing that. That just delays any fruit, any results. No, I had I had a project where the stakeholders, they were getting pretty frustrated on how why it was taking so long. But we finally had a conversation. Look, I've been working with uh team and we don't have a definition. So, we can't create any number because no one knows what the

rules are. So before we can move forward, I'm not we're not going to build a report that's wrong numbers. And that realization that all these different kind of, you know, things under the rock, so to speak, that were not discovered are usually what we are the ones that are taking on.

Yes. I mean, I I agree with your point there, but I guess I'm I you know, I I think it's unreasonable to not do any pro. So, I'm on two ends of the spectrum here, right? One on one end of the spectrum is like, do we take on any project? Like, do we not do any project? Like, uh, how do I say this one? Um, do we not start any project until all the rules are defined? The answer is no, we don't do that. Do we start every project with no rules? The answer is also no. So, those are the two ends of the spectrum. Like, you can't go one way all to the other end. And as your team matures over time, like hopefully they'll be like, oh, in my last projects or my last items, like I was able to

figure out a little bit of um you know, oh yes, we've we've we've done this table work before. We know that this column needs to be filled out for the relationships to work or we know there's going to be some bad data. We're going to filter it out. I'm just going to tell someone the bad data exists. Right? So these are things that you've learned from like experience with working with your data in your company. The other point of this I'm trying to maybe make here as well is the data culture is very important in this experience. Yes. So you know one thing that was going through my mind here is like what happens when you find there's a problem in data like my example I just gave earlier right the the business team finds that there's a problem with

the data and you have to trace it all the way back to the Salesforce system who's really responsible to fix it in the Salesforce system. Well, there's a lot of potential pointing of fingers in that situation and you need someone like the CTO or someone at the higher level that can say look, you know, let me hear your arguments. Let me figure out what's going on. Okay, let's identify in our process who's the actual part in the failure here. Is it a dead engineering loading problem? Is it a source system issue? Where's the issue in the in the pipeline? let's identify where that is and say okay now we're going to go okay this team you had the data quality problem it's in your area go fix it and give them a timeline or a deadline to go

in and fix these datas because to your point Tommy right we want to build all the net new things but there is a amount of supporting of old stuff or existing things that we have to balance as well so I also see the you know new teams to the data world seem to focus on like only building that new things but not really providing enough time or support to maintain existing things. So it has to be a balance. You can't just keep running forward as fast as you can. Leadership would always love you to build only new things moving forward but then that removes the support for all the existing stuff that falls over and then yes you can't use it. A lot of again with depending on the data culture they just have the

perception that we're very good at bar charts not all these other things too. So and this is a perfect point I I think why bringing data culture into this now right because when this has to be part of the expectations and I think to me when we are really talking about the data contract oh my gosh for if we just say yeah we'll build a model we'll do some discovery and we'll ask you if any questions you're you're asking to for failure you're asking for frustration for uh people to not be happy with the results because it's going to take too long there's going to be too many questions if we're going in and with a,

you know, again, some model that we know it's going to be reused, something that has that path to certified. This has to be part of honestly when we're talking about a data contract, something that is signed, confirmed, and read by all parties involved before we start. I don't you don't want to make it bigger than it is because you you know uh for every single model, right, where it's like, you know, well certain. So, this is again I I agree. I'm like I like where you're going with this because I again I'll go back to like is it certified or is it not, right? So like you know certified things I think are require a little bit more rigor, right? So I do think on certified data sets you'd have for sure at least a data

contract written out or at least something documented on a SharePoint site or at least write down some very simple things. Yeah. Like and so going back to like the documented business rules around the semantics. There's nothing in PowerBI today. Yes. that defines where we would store the semantics of that model. There is an area. So when we move on to the next section of the article, it talks about what else is in a data contract service level agreements the SLA that I think would be very useful to put that in the description of the model itself. So you know this is one thing we we say let's let's add descriptions to things. Well, in in the description here on the article, it's talking about right what's the la what's the latest time the data is expected to be in the product, right?

So data should be loaded by 9:00 a.m. Central Standard Time or Eastern time zone, right? So you know and if this doesn't work the you know uh you know set up you know at least notify in the description like you know automatic notifications have been set up if this thing fails you know the data team will be aware of this and you know write the conditions an email will be sent out to the users of this data set or a note will be made on the SharePoint page when the system's down and we're fixing and investigating it. So like the SLA of things I think that's really a big um it's a trust gathering element. Oh huge right you know what hap you know there's other they call things like metrics here. I've never really heard of

these terms before but I mean they make sense to me. They talk about meanantime between failures, MTBF, and then they say meanantime to recovery, like when it does fail, what's the the average time it takes to recover the data or get the data back in there. Like um those could be metrics that you put on top of this for like when you do ticketing or ticketing systems. If something fails, you can figure out when it failed and how long it took you to resolve and complete the issue. But you know at the end of the day right I think the service level agreement is like something that the data team or if the data the person building the table they should take a swing at that first and say here's what I can commit to

based on the technical pieces on the back end. Right? If the data doesn't come in till 5 in the morning well it takes us 2 hours to load it. It's going to be a minimum of 7 a.m. minimum because it's going and and then you know give yourself some padding there. So by 8 a.m. we could have the data there, right? Is that going to meet the business needs? And if the business says no, we need it earlier, then you've got to figure out a different solution how to get the data there faster. So like I think I think there's things that that's a conversation that should be happening. And again, this was we were very limited this when we were just in the world of PowerBI semantic models because it was read only. It was hard to kind of go

through the metadata of that and add that, right? So a lot of times we could do like the refresh schedule for all the things but I think what we're really diving into here when it comes to the column quality the business quality of that like we were more or less at the you know uh at the mercy of the data coming in um we didn't have the data engineering the semantic model if something broke you know in a power query or something broke in a data flow we I mean before we asked anyone we're immediately going to the power queries like was get the database, did someone input something wrong? And that that was much tougher because we didn't kind of control the that process, which but now we're and and I don't know if you want to table this or

or move into this now now, but this is going to change drastically, I think, with having fabric available to us. Well, I was just in a conference and uh at the conference, it was in the PowerBI Netherlands group and they're doing a really good conference. I was in one of the sessions and they were talking about things and one of the common notes was Microsoft was on the stage presenting a new feature and everyone was like, "Okay, interesting." They're unpacking the feature, looking at it going, "Okay, this is interesting." And a question came out from the audience is like, "Is this fabric only?" And I the number of organizations in that region that didn't have fabric yet or their central team did not allow fabric to turn on was was quite large honestly. So there's a lot

of teams that were still like trying to figure out if fabric is a play for us. So you know when we talk about cure PowerBI and what fabric is doing I think you have a lot more opportunity to build more data. You're you're adding more data engineering. You're bringing all the tools that came from other worlds like the data platform in fabric or sorry in Azure over to fabric event hubs, lakehouses, storage tables. There's a lot more surface area now. And and what's happening I believe is the business is getting more access or more direct access when fabric is turned on. So there's there's a couple hurdles I see here. One, you've just got to be able to turn on fabric to begin with. If it's not turned on, then you're out of luck. Yeah. And and again, we're seeing that

even too with people who um listen to podcast, it's we're getting there, Mike. We're get we're getting there. We're getting there for everyone to turn it on.

But so I guess for a lot of people then still in the PowerBI world, if it's still something that you think is going to have a slower adoption, I guess what what are some of the kind of I guess approaches that we'd want to do? because I I really think the data contracts conversation is one that at least for on my end those only discussions have really been in the data engineering world and I would say closer to the back end in terms of something being established um like part of any process. It was something new and exciting when when we brought it to the business the reporting into the uh business but it was always harder to do in terms of like for every approach. So if fabric is not going to be the way or the quick adoption, we're

talking just PowerBI. Then what are some of the approaches then? Well, I guess I guess what I'm looking at here when I when I look at the article, I think things like metadata or the data governance portion that seems to be pretty well handled by like the security of the of the resource group, right? So I have the workspace, I have, you know, admins, contributors, members, and viewers, right? So that that's some level of data control of who can even see the data to begin with. You have another layer of that metadata governance by using by adding rowle security or object level security. Which tables can you not see? Which rows of data can you see or not see? So I think to me like I think a lot of like the the metadata the data governance portion is

already kind of really built into the tool. So yes, maybe you're talking about those requirements. Those are requirements that you're probably gathering at the beginning of your semantic model build and using them to generate the actual semantic model. When I look at the service level agreement, that's information that I feel like should be captured at the description of the semantic model. Like this is an area where we could put it right next to the model. When I start talking about semantics, and this is where I'm talking about these are like the business rules, like the data tests of the data. the to me these are a little bit these are not really built into the tool yet right I have to build a separate process that does tests on columns or tests on loading of data to make sure the net new

data I'm bringing in adheres to a quality standard and then you know another thing here I want to kind of point out here is data bricks already has this datab bricks has this thing called table monitoring so a table monitoring what it does is every time you load data it monitors a table and provides all the statistics of that table. How many records were loaded? What's the distribution of data in each of these columns? So to me, that's really interesting because that starts covering the semantics of what's happening in these columns. Now, uh to liken this to an example that PowerBI does, when you're in Power Query and you see the table statistics at the top, when you open like Power Query and and the column statistics, that's what it's doing. It's basically collecting statistics information there, keeping

that and then and then showing you that over time. So like every time you load, I want to be able to observe the the column statistics and then say there are rules that I want to apply in a very simple way. Again, going back to like this rules engine or how to test the data. You're building all that homegrown. Like there's parts of the tool that show you the data, but you don't actually get to build quality checks on top of the data. And that's like you building a custom notebook, you're building another data flow to test the data and make sure it's right. And then if that passes then you can say okay the data quality is good. So I think when we talk about data contracts there's parts of this that are you know

schema seems very well defined to me like when you build a semantic model when you build a table lakehouse that's very well defined. So again thinking about these data contracts I think it's important to talk about this topic with people. I think you should spend a good amount of time working on the semantics of the data and what does that mean? um the business probably doesn't know what the semantics should look like and the business or data engineering team should really have a conversation around what does this mean and I think over time you'll get better at understanding how to define the semantics and those can should definitely be documented and placed somewhere. I just doesn't feel like the tool today supports this. No, and I I completely agree and especially when you're dealing with the only really

kind of approach you would have in if you were fabric is a custom notebook, right? But again, you still have to write all the code. It's not a tool that you know expectations. It kind of helps you out a little bit. It like it gives you a way to write a rule and then say make a data frame and run this rule against Yeah. But it's not not really intended for a semantic model. And again, that's kind of the more or less that's kind of the meat and the bones of what we're doing. Well, I mean the semantic model is just an output, right? I mean semantic model is just the output of whatever the tables are being produced as, right? So if you're doing pure PowerBI, you're building the semantic model and like you could have tables in

your Power Query that refer to those and do the data quality test inside the semantic model, right? Or if you're building in fabric, you could just have a Python notebook that does that for you as well. That's true. Yeah. But it's still again it's just very custom and again if if you're trying to repeat this for uh you know every every lakehouse every table that's compared to something like data bricks where there's kind of like already something kind of built in right you turn it you just turn it on and it kind of like right yeah I'm with you the table statistics is something that would be interesting to see if fabric could produce something like that right that to me that feels a bit more like a missing feature and maybe no one's asking for it yet

But why wouldn't table monitoring or statistics on a table just become part of the one lake catalog, right? Wouldn't you be like there should be like I feel like in in one lake catalog there should be like a health score, right? Yeah. You go to the one lake catalog. Here's a table of data. I'm going to specify a couple rules. I'm gonna assert some things of this table. This table must have this, this, this, and this about this, this column is a number. this column can't have nulls. Like if you give me a couple of those things and then just generally collect statistics of the table, then you can watch the table and what you're trying to you're trying to identify. You're trying to identify data drift, right? You're trying to the data will change over time. What does the drift of

that data look like over time in that table? So, I'm gonna I'm gonna um propose something and you could tell me how how out of line this is, but very

I think when we're dealing with people the interaction in someone's relationship with PowerBI or Microsoft Fabric, yes, all those things are definitely important, but I think and something that would even be I think more approachable for Microsoft to integrate it. What are people really caring about at the end of the day? It's their metrics, right? And it's those the val really those things that define them, right? So like these sales teams are in these regions. Um you know the five allowed values. Our metrics are always updated and you know they should be right more or less if you just took that subset. Obviously a lot of that's going to be defined by the engineering side. But if you think about it, we

already have metric sets and metric sets already has a lot of custom ability. I feel like it'd be easier for Microsoft to kind of have an input or user input field for kind of just some parameters around metrics like uh you know uh what's the maximum value allowed, the lowest level allowed, you know, show me the uh uh the change over time on some of my metrics. Hey, this column should have five distinct values, right? And uh um and that's part of this metric set because rather than trying to boil the ocean with all those again not saying it's not important but all the things in the semantics right in terms of last refresh you know um processing errors I don't think that's going to be the Microsoft you know space and u um the

interface for it but more or less the output of those things like uh you again what are what are the values currently ly in um our our sales team or sales regions what are the current metrics and having that as a hub where because we're if it's going to be something that Microsoft's going to build or something readily available there has to be some global parameters right rather than everything being so custom parameters like maximum low value kind of thing like hey um if any metric you could input like hey what's the maximum allowed How much has it changed per day? You know, like I don't agree with that at all. There's no global. There's no global anything. Hold on. I'm not saying I'm saying if we're going to have a nice user interface, they're I would call them

basic parameters, basic things that could apply to any measure. You're you're describing you're describing a rule engine. You need you need an easy way to make the rules that's simple to use. Yes. Yes. Yeah. So, it's not global. You're talking global parameters. I I think I'm interpreting yours as like that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about we need an easier way like we don't we there's no easy way to apply data quality principles

to tables that exist today, right? Like and and that's that's to me that's the semantics of these models. There is a little bit of semantics that are applied, right? If you have a dimension table that has duplicate records and you have a one to many relationship to a fact table, well the if the dimension table has dupes, it automatically throws out this can't be this can't not it's not a true error, right? It's it's going to fail. So you you can go just determine what that is and like, oh yes, I know what that problem is. But that's just kind of part of the limitations that the semantic model has. I don't think you want to start refreshing your semantic model and then find out you have dupes in your DM table. I think you want to find out that

a little earlier in the process, right? So if you're pure PowerBI, you kind of have to let the semantic model be the determination of these things. Yeah. But if you're in fabric, you should be testing these things earlier in the process. Okay. I I think I'm on the same page as you. I think you were describing what I'm saying. Different name. Different name. Yeah. You were saying global and like I'm like ah I'm not I'm not going to put one rule across everything. I No. Yeah. Yeah. I just want a nice interface Microsoft creates for me that I can input value input the numbers. I I wonder if this is something that the community will eventually develop where we could have like data monitoring on tables like I mean why wouldn't that be just something that people would just

build and have part of like a solution that users could use inside their data quality for certified data sets you know define rules of the data and it just runs them against the data set itself right I mean it doesn't have to be a notebook but what about a more like a you like this feels like something that could be useful and I I like your point Tommy around the metric sets metric sets kind of makes sense to put it there. But ultimately, I think when you're trying to build data discovery for people, you want the data discovery to occur like in the one lake catalog. I feel like you may be building these rules in other places, but you want to surface the information in one lake catalog. I got Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm saying like there

should be like I feel like every table needs a health score. And this is maybe where AI could take over. Could AI generate these rules and say, "Hey, based on the usage pattern of this table, here's the columns that are most frequently used and we would recommend on these most frequently used columns in these tables, here's some recommended requirements, business expectations, you would you should apply. Do you want me to apply them?" Yes, I'll track them. Okay, great. Because you shouldn't I mean, there's a lot of things you just don't care to track. You don't need you don't need to make you don't want to make extra tracking just for the sake of doing it.

those AI functions. You mean maybe some AI functions could this this is interesting. Like I I'm trying to unpack like what this means now a little bit. Interesting. Okay. Anyways, all this being said, I think this is really good. Let me give you some of my final thoughts. I think this article from Atlan was really good. It really helps solidify different key aspects of what I think are a data contract. A data contract is a schema. It sounds like there's semantics or business logic that's applied in the contract. The service level agreement, how often the data set's available and who's responsible for making sure it loads. What happens when it fails to load? And then the last one is like data governance. Who can see what of the data set? I think these are really good

aspects. When I talk to data contracts, this really helps me round out the conversation around we should be talking about these buckets of things with stakeholders of tables and figuring out what they need from the like let's talk data contract. Let's talk about these four years. Tell me what you mean by these things. I think if you have at least introducing those topics, people will be able to give you a better definition of like this is what I expect the data to look like. Any final thoughts, Tommy? No, I I think this is something that just needs to be brought up more and I'm really personally in the future really interested to see this how this is going to really integrate with business users in the fabric platform and in the workspace uh rather than

being at the mercy of a semantic model that's already been built where they can actually um you know hopefully too also have a part of ownership not just saying what's wrong or what's right but being able to go into fabric too and I think that's part of microsoft's kind of overall goal but man is that going to help But there's different users that are you can identify, right? There's there's like consumers, there's like, you know, advanced users, and there's like expert users, right? Consumers would be just I just give you a semantic model, and you're done. Here's here's your app. You're done. Right? Basic or advanced users would be like, okay, here's here's some shortcuts in a lakehouse. Here's a SQL endpoint inside fabric. You can go use that. And maybe advanced users can go all the way back

to the source data. Like, hey advanced users, you're not just getting gold data, you're getting like silver level data access, but in order for you to promote your content out to consumers, we had to have a process to do that. So, good thoughts. I think there's probably more topics around this one as well. Like this article. Thought this was relevant for data contracts, some things to unpack. I'd highly recommend the read through and see how you could use it in your organization. That being said, we really appreciate your ears. We know uh you have lots of things to do and you could be spending your time doing a million other things. We hope this episode was slightly entertaining and or thoughtprovoking for you. If you liked it, please share with somebody else. Let someone else know that you

thought this topic was interesting to you uh and you may use it in the future. With that being said, Tommy, where else can you find the podcast? You can find us on Apple, Spotify, wherever your podcast. Make sure to subscribe and leave a rating. It helps us out a ton. Share with a friend since we do this for free. You have a question, idea, or topic that you want us to talk about a future episode, head over to powerbi.tips tipsodcast. Leave your name and a great question. And finally, join us live every Tuesday and Thursday, 7:30 a.m. Central, and join the conversation on all of PowerBI tips social media channels. Thank you all very much, and we'll see you next time. [Music]

Get out.
