Title: Self Service Analytics with AI - Ep.539 - Power BI tips
Channel: Power BI Tips
Uploaded: 20260709   Duration: 1:08:42
Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tyGOiqoyk4Q
Captions: auto (en)  [auto-generated: no speaker labels, expect transcription errors]
------------------------------------------------------------------------

measures. It [music] lighting up the sky. Dance to the day to laugh in the mix. Fabric and A. I get your feels. [music] Explicit measures. Drop the beat now. Pumpkins

feel the crowd. [music] Explicit measures.

Hello Tommy and welcome everyone back to the explicit measures podcast. Happy to have everyone back back to be in the in the show again. Good morning. How you doing >> Mike? I am doing excellent. It's good to see your face. It's good to be here. >> We are rocking and rolling yet again. The podcast is up and running. We got a great article today. Um this is an article that I found that was I just read this one. I thought, wow, this is so applicable to what we're trying to do now with PowerBI and all these new agentic tools that are showing up here. So, it's talking about how Anthropic enables self-service data with analytics with Claude, which is very interesting. So, I'm looking forward to unpacking this solution and where does this fit. Um, Tommy, I'm seeing so many things

across the internet around people building reports now with agents and now Rayin has been out. We were so pro on Rayfin. uh not last week but the week before we did an entire series on Rayfin projects, how to get started, how to use templates, some tips and tricks on how to use agents with uh you know visual UI programming for apps. >> It's getting better and better every week. Uh and I'm actually really enjoying all of the projects. I don't see anything else being mentioned on LinkedIn anymore other than like ma mainly Ray Finn projects. Look what I did. Look what I built. I mean, it's just been all over the place. >> And I think to the point what we'll get into the article, uh, again, this is from Anthropic on how they use

self-service analytics is you can build all those things, Mike, but there's a whole other side that you need to account for. How do you actually make it work for the business that I cannot wait to get into? >> Yeah, I totally agree with that one. All right, that being said, um, let's jump into any news items, Tommy. You find anything that's interesting and newsworthy? >> So, there's actually no news today, Mike. I just want to briefly give some best tips on traveling long distances with family. >> And so I was on vacation last week. We went to a wedding. We were in New York. Uh we were in Long Island uh visiting family. We had a wedding in Jersey and we drove from Chicago. That's a 12 hour 13 hour drive. >> I was going to say how long is that a

drive to get to New York? That's a 12-h hour drive straight if you went straight. Yes. >> If you went straight. So to Long Island is 13 and then if that's not accounting for, you know, the World Cup, the US Open and everything else happening in New York City at the time. Yep. >> So, so right now I have a bunch of icy hot on my back. I do not like not to drive. I like to drive. >> Um, and one of the things that we've done is you minimize the stops. We have three kids. >> Yep. >> But we had Trader Joe's and Trader Joe's is excellent for all the snacks because we just snack on that the whole way. It's not the best diet, >> but Tommy, I've also This is funny. This

is I'm I'm gonna oust you here, Tommy. Every time I'm not on the podcast, but Tommy, there's like a bag of something at your desk. [laughter] So, I know I know you're a snacker on snacks around the office. >> I have put them in the corner. They're over here. [laughter] So, >> I know I know there's snacks somewhere. So, um So, your your secret a little bit is making sure get you get good snacks for your road trip. espresso chocolate beans for me. Uh the kids have chips. We have they they have like these little breakfast like pancake things that that are in bags. So that makes the the trip go faster. And we do like every four hours just get out of the car, >> you know, [clears throat] get gas. I always get my espresso, let the kids run

around and you can we can get there in about 13 hours which is pretty good with kids. >> Dang, that is actually really good. >> Yeah. I have to admit, Mike, I was disappointed with the pizza. really have you turned into a Chicago pizza person now? >> Absolutely not. Absolutely not. I just have a standard uh [laughter] a pretentious standard. And well, because we were a little east of where I'm normally in Long Island, so we're in a place all all the names are just perfect like Sioset, Hogpog, and where we were, we didn't know a lot of the pizza places. So, a little dis a little disappointed that front. We did come home with our 24 bagels because you do not leave New York without bagels >> really. >> Um I mean at least I mean you can but my

family never has. Okay. >> So [laughter] like I don't I'm sure it's totally fine for most people. But >> yeah. No, New York was good. The trip rate was back but I know we got home in that weather storm or whatever it was. The uh the storm that I'm sure you guys hit you guys. >> Yep. >> Yeah. So that was a doozy. But I cannot wait to just get into everything. But Mike, I know you actually do have some news, I believe, around one of our favorites, Kurt Buer. >> Well, I I can't I can't argue with this one. You know, Kurt comes out with things like almost at the opportune time exactly when I'm thinking these things whenever it just seems to be um a neat correspondence between what he comes up with and what I can think about like

what's which should be tested, >> right? >> Kurt has gone through and there's a there's a number of ways you can use agents inside PowerBI. You can use agents with um uh editing files directly with the agent. You can just throw an agent right at the PBIR files. You can use a PBI PowerBI. You can use the uh manipulate JSON if you want directly or you can use what he has built with um >> me Mark Maxo I think is how you say his name. Yeah, >> he and another gentleman have been building this like PowerBI CLI solution. >> And so, interestingly, >> he went through and he kind of tested the performance of, you know, how did you if you ask it to build a visual or ask it to build a report, how good is

these different tools for using tokens, what model, which one performs the best? >> These are kind of questions that I in general would like to see, >> right? Um, you know, right now I believe a lot of the challenge is we don't really know which model does a good job doing what task >> and what kind of tooling or harness do you need to get that tool to correct outcome. >> So you're trying to do it what we were going to call like a min maxing. You want to maximize the output, meaning getting exactly what you want, but you want to minimize the amount of tokens and the amount of cost it takes to run that solution. And so what Kurt does here in this post, I'll put the post here inside the chat window. Kurt goes

through and with different models across the same prompt, which model was the most performant and what tooling was the most efficient tooling to get the job done. I this is incredibly interesting, Tommy, because I think we're very close or we should be getting into the stage of optimization. M, >> you know, agents can do a lot of things, but if Tommy spends 2 hours and uh, you know, 100,000 tokens and Mike can do it in 30 minutes in 50,000 tokens, >> right? >> Or 2 hours and 20,000 tokens, like there

there's a there's value in making it more efficient because this is now costing us real money at this point. Anyways, I thought this article was really interesting. Curt's got a really cool infographic which I'm sure he vibe coded with like a ray project or some kind of real data that was behind it. So, absolutely love that as well. Um, but this is a really interesting read and article and and Kurt, I know you may or may not be listening to this one as well. Um, I want to challenge Kurt and say to Kurt, how did you build the infographic? Was that built inside Rayfin or did you just vibe code an HTML page? I'm guess based on what I know about Kurt, I'm guessing he just vibecoded it. >> Yeah. >> Think about this, Tommy. Now, when we

collect data, because it's so easy for us to get a vibecoded HTML animated

page, you can you can now build a oneoff report for your blog posts, >> right? >> And he shows you clicking through the thing. I mean, this is really pretty impressive. So, one, the the output is great, but two, the data in this article is, I think, is also really important as well. >> And I I'll take a slightly different approach here to what Kurt's been doing. And I think what you've been doing too, Mike, years ago, I think when we started seeing the onset of AI being part of workflows and really before it was part of business intelligence, >> I had this prediction around the business intelligence skills. And I' I've talked about these ven diagrams before we've had PowerBI and design, PowerBI and data engineering, and I'm like, well, there's going to be a

PowerBI and AI ven diagram of crossover skills. What I I think I actually that prediction fell short was we're now seeing the niches of AI skills with BI.

You're seeing what you've been doing with Rafen. We're seeing what Kurt's doing around with visualizations. We're seeing the governance and the agentic side for operations. And you're seeing how this all kind of there's this sub vend diagrams here which I I did not see coming. And I think this is really cool that people are really finding not just hey I do AI and business intelligence >> that's way too general to say and now we're actually seeing that there are actually kind of almost departments in the organization here around you're using business intelligence you're using a data stack how are you using AI with it well now there's really categorical places where people can go to find a niche that they like

>> I I'm People keep saying that AI is going to take our jobs. I rapidly see it shifting what we do. >> Yes, >> it's taking some work off our plate, but it's adding a whole bunch of net new work that no one knows what it's about. And I think this is one of these cases of like, you know, the internet came out. We're like, oh no, the internet's going to take away all the printing press and no more writing. Excuse me. >> But here we are. We're reading more than ever now. We've got a bunch of video and the internet's changed how we do everything. Like >> we're just in this stage where things are just changing. It's just different. It's just going to shift the work we do into something new. Now everyone's

talking about agentic loops and >> oh we're not going to be writing prompts anymore and we let the agents figure out. >> All that stuff takes orchestration and setup and you know infrastructure and there we're just shifting the work to something else to say well how do you build this loop thing? What do you understand what a loop is? >> I love how you said we're shifting our work. I I think to your point a little if you could just continued what you've been doing. Yeah, AMI actually take may take that. But the good news is what we're seeing and I think just anthropics article just confirms a lot of things we've been saying on this podcast somehow. >> The fact that what we have to do now is still needs that human input and that

design that strategic side. Now are again are you going to be doing the same work you were doing five years ago? Can AI do that? Yeah. However, to your point, there's this whole other layer of what AI can do to make honestly our jobs, dare I say, a little more valuable. So, Mike, I think it's time to get into the article, unless you want to say anything more Kurt's thing. >> No, I just wanted to point I just kind of want to highlight that thing out right now. Um, I haven't done any videos on it currently, but I'd like to do some videos in the future around using Kurt's CLI, PowerBI CLI tool. Uh, so we can kind of compare. I I think um now that we have like three different ways of building apps and data and solutions,

now it's going to kind of turn into well which way is the most efficient? Which tools should I use to get the best results out of this? It's >> right. >> It's just a lot of more things that we need to see tests around. So I'm actually happy that the community is starting to test things >> really push into is this tool effective? Does it get the output value that I want? >> So let's dive in. Mike, I'm going to preface this article and our discussion today with there comes every once in a while, Mike, where we have an article or a topic that really challenges, provokes, and I think really excites me. And this article is the first in a long time that to me is one of those groundbreaking ways that we need to

think about what we do. A lot of it I think we've talked about, but I think for a lot of people who are in the data space, in the fabric space and they're trying to navigate things, this is really a statement, a strong statement about what the future lies for us and where we need to focus. This is a powerful article and again this is from Anthropic on their blog called How Anthropic Enable Self-Service Data Analytics with Claude. What they were able to go through in the article is talking about Anthropic's own journey to use Claude and to use AI to be able to help answer questions to validate data. These are the big things we've talked about about how do you co-pilot chat? How do you actually get the answers you need? What has their teams built and set

up? What are the best practices and what are the foundations, the layers that make it work? We've talked about some of these things. I think they've introduced a few other kind of concepts here, but Mike be I want to go through pieces of the article uh kind of chronologically, but before we do that, you what's your take overall from what Anthropic put out there and really I guess does it change your framework or your idea about our role, our job or you know the data space and its relationship to AI? Hi. >> No, it it doesn't actually. I think in in a lot of ways, Tommy, this really affirms and solidifies a lot more of what we've been saying. And >> I think this is also helping me kind of align like >> this is the most forward agent thinking

company in the world. >> They're building the agents that everyone is using these days and a lot of people are copying what they're doing. And you know to be honest Anthropic is also copying a lot of other tool any good idea that comes out now >> right >> open claw mobile remote chat with your agent kind of thing any if you can dream it up Tommy and you put it out there in the internet and some other company thinks it's valuable within days weeks

other companies are copying that idea and incorporating their tool. So the love the playing field for like what people are doing is becoming very even in my opinion. Almost every tool has the features that you need cuz they're all and if they don't have it, wait a week. It'll kind of get there. >> Yeah. >> Right. Um but you know if if we start reading through this article, one of the areas that they kind of point out here at the beginning of the article is talking about data foundations. And one of the things they talk about is um [clears throat] >> standard data engineering, data quality and practice such as dimension modeling. >> Yes. all at the very beginning they're saying you have to have good data it has to be understood by the business you have to

have good structure and doing a dimension model dimension to model is the way to go >> they even highlight semantic modeling yeah >> correct and a lot of this article to me points to and they're not directly saying they're they're using AI to supplement looking at go getting at finding data but there's a lot of I would call maybe pillars foundational foundational pieces that they're saying these foundational pieces need to be in place. >> Mhm. >> And those foundational pieces aren't another skill for Claude. It's the semantic model. >> It's relationships between tables. It's not having redundant data between two different tables. This is what we've been building for the last 15 years, Tommy. >> Yeah. And by the way, how happy do you think the Microsoft team is for changing the name from data model to semantic

model years ago? remember that people had all that uh hoopla like, "Oh, why are they changing the name? Is it a data model now or semantic model?" Um because that's what it was for most of us. They're high-fiving each other now because they're like, "Good. We use the right term." So, we're right in it. >> It was the same thing. They just changed the name. >> And yes, correct, Tommy. And I and I think even even the semantic models of things is even a little bit maybe like not even fully encompassy of what a semantic model actually is because a semantic model is the semantics and the data that's in it. >> Yeah. Right. Right. Right. >> Right. It's actually two parts kind of brought together. And so data model kind of makes a bit more sense because it's

like semantics data model like it's it's kind of like both semantics and data all rolled together. Um, and I think what Anthropics may be talking about here a bit more is like they they're just talking a bit more about the semantics model, right? Relationships, tables, column definitions, what does all this stuff mean, um, it it reduces ambiguity.

And I think another thing that stood out to me in this article, Tommy, if the agent can't figure it out, humans aren't going to figure it out either. >> Right. Right. You're going to have the pro. You already have the same problems. Yeah. >> Yes. So I I think this is a good place to go into where Anthropic went through a few tips that kind of theme out the article here. And I want to kind of highlight these and then talk about their main point here about how the difference between data and software or the difference between building applications and then utilizing agents for data. But first, let's go over what they really what their biggest insights were. And I'm going to read these out. >> Sure. When analytics accuracy is a context, no why analytics accuracy is a

context and a verification problem, not a code generation issue. What are the three failures that cause the most error errors? The the in aentic analytic stack

was built that they address those errors, how to measure effectiveness and a basic template to create the majority of these skills. And this really starts with what they call data is really not software where coding is an open-ended solution that rewards the model's creativity. You know data has usually one answer and they kind of broke it up into three different areas. Context generation verification and the difference between coding and analytics. For context code bases are you know well-maintained readme signatures doctrines commit history. Uh there's a structured context before it writes any code. The difference with analytics, Mike, is the database has millions of fields, many of them that are poorly documented. There may be some notion of revenue in multiple places. I mean, we know this. We've talked about this for five years on the podcast and 10 years

before that. Even with the right field, two different teams can define the same metric differently. We've had podcasts on just that topic or just that sentence. >> Yeah. >> So, and then when it comes to generation for coding, the time to actually write the code, almost any spec uh can be created. So a plausible answer is usually a valid one for generation for analytics. Implementing analytics and solution is often trivial trivial. It's only five to 10 lines of code. But usually there's only one correct answer or one correct approach. You can do the same things with coding. And finally verification. >> For all code that is produced and uh compilers there's unit tests and there are fast feedback. For coding for analytics there's no unit test, no compiler, no ground truth. short of defining preset expectations

baselining you know there's no deterministic way to confirm the output is right and that is what I think we've struggled with what a lot of companies have struggled with trying to set up analytics with AI they're trying to take this coding applicationbased approach and realizing that you cannot do that so let's start right there where there's this concept and entity ambiguity when it comes to all the viable options Mike,

this has been, I think, the holy grail that people have talked about why AI has not worked for analytics so far. >> I'd agree in a lot of these areas. And I think what [snorts] this points out to me, Tommy, is the data here, the the information that's being presented, right? This is a lot less around

using agents to go answer your questions. A lot of this article feels to me use agents to build frameworks >> on top of existing code, software, IP that you can run regularly, right? It doesn't talk it definitely talks about the semantics model, but it doesn't say have the agent go through and build its own semantic model and store it inside the memory of the agent while it's doing the task. No, it's it's it's alluding to having semantics from people described in a way the agent can understand it. That's really the that's the important part here, right? So there's a there's a lot of these things when it starts talking about data foundations and you know dimensional modeling and how that looks. This is just reaffirming a lot of what I think we've been saying for weeks

now, which is the agents are going to be really good at helping you build things and then you can go look and review and test them. And I also kind of agree here with this statement around testing. It's actually quite difficult to build out a test of data or build a um

a test that when you run the DAX statement, it outputs the right numbers, >> right? >> And does it output I mean that's that data quality issue is like a whole study field of study in and of in and of itself. Mhm. >> And so we should be using agents to help us build a framework, a system so we can use data quality, but we need to be able to like not ask the agent to give us the answer for the actual numbers. And this is a great part here because the three errors that they talked about that usually get inaccurate responses is again that concept entity ambiguity what columns or fields to use the staleness of data and then the right information may be in the data model but the data simply can't find it because there's so

much to look for and it's funny Mike because one of the things that they mention is you know two different teams can have a different definition of a metric >> that's part And it's funny because Mike literally at this point now 10 years ago was my seinal moment with business intelligence that I was building PowerBI reports for marketing for leads and sales had a completely different definition that the whole company had to stop what they were doing at that moment to figure out how do we now have three different dashboards with three different numbers for leaked. How did this happen and what do we do about this? And we're this is not something that was solved in 20 two uh 2016. We are all companies are still dealing with this and I want to get into data

governance later on but there's a huge part here around to your point the human involvement here and the role of the business the role of teams owning their data. So but before we get to that I think just the three errors around the data sailness the retrieval failure in concept. Okay, >> this is nothing new and I I think just really starting there, there's nothing new here on whether you're using this for AI or I can say those same three things five years ago. Data staleness, concept, entity ambiguity and retrieval fuel that I think still dealt with when teams were building reports. Where do you find the data? What is the correct definition? And is the data accurate? That's literally the same thing, the same song and dance we've been doing for 10 years at this point. And I think as

we go into this, does this elevate, let me just ask you a question here. Does this really elevate now or give a little more importance to the business intelligence teams? Because it's the same three things we've been crying for the last 10 years.

>> Yeah. I think I mean not anymore than it was before. M >> I mean just keep doing what you're doing. >> Keep doing what you're doing. >> It's not going to it's not it's not emphasizing any more than it was previously. I I see the the value of the

BI team or being able to define the metrics or to find the tables or you know to your point leads right

>> there's a broader conversation happening. Um, does your company allow

will your company allow for the threshold of having multiple teams have def different different definitions for the same name? Right? >> Or can you say leads is a general term

and it's not specific enough for what each team needs, >> right? And typically, and again, I'm going to step on your toes here a bit, Tommy, based on like what I understand about multiple terms being you, the same word being used for multiple different definitions. >> The difference between the two different teams was one team was filtering out additional things for the other team was not or including more things than than it wasn't. So a lot of these terms leads

is just additional filter context that's changing how you p you view that perspective of what a lead really is and so each team has a definition of what that is. I [clears throat] think the broader question is does the organization is the organization okay with that? Can you provide separate names that here's what a lead is, but for this team, this is a leads without XYZ things. Leads with leads without or with this XYZ things for different teams. So, we have [snorts] to be able to have language that we can say, well, when I calculate leads, it means this. And when you calculate leads, it means that there's there's meaning behind what those are what those two definitions are doing. And I think that's where Anthropic is trying to address some of these issues which is by creating a proper data set

the agent can get a better example of if I want revenue by product you can put it can go find it. Now I don't think revenue by product is the question you want to go ask your agent. What I would rather see is like okay take all products and put revenue against them. like let's see products by revenue generate the visual that you

want and then the person has to come in and be the test for that. Once you have that test then you understand what is real and from there you can then see or or build out like data quality and the checking and so that way you know every time you refresh the data set it becomes you know it's not stale anymore. by refreshing it, you can then verify the numbers are not changing or changing the way you expect them to change over time. That's the data quality kind of a problem here as well. So, I don't I'm not going to say it's going to make it any more important, Tommy. I'm just going to say it just means we're just going to keep doing what we're doing. Oh, I'm here. I lost you for a sec.

>> Can you still hear me? >> I can hear you. So, >> back to you. >> Cool. So, I feel like there's a bit of a chicken or egg thing, Mike, because you're speaking about the quality testing, right? But there's this part about the ownership. Should that start beforehand? And there's a part about data governance here. There's a part about the ownership when you actually are setting up these solutions and you're building this stack. Well, should you already have governance in place? And I think for me, I'm looking at this And as we get into kind of the main kind of meat of the meat and potatoes of the article around this agentic analytic stack, it's going to be really hard for organizations to build out their agentic analytic solutions or really agentic things over their data. I think without

already having some solid governance policies in place around the ownership and accountability. I do not see organizations being able to be successful around doing AI solutions or

agents that are running over their data or chat bots or answering questions until they actually have accomplished data governance. And that may be my first hot take today, but just from what I'm hearing you say about okay, when we do the testing or when we have someone verifying a visual, I feel like you can't do that until you actually have some governance in place.

I there's a there's a diagram that comes to mind about this Tommy when you when I look at like Microsoft or fabric or how things are going to be rolled out there um there's different ways to roll out governance for things you can do governance in a very flat way meaning work on all the governance first and then build right so you can work out all your policies around who can have workspaces what does the data set do all the governance upfront >> and then once you have what you feel like is defined correctly then you release PowerBI and fabric into the wild right another approach would be is well we don't really want to have our hands in all of the governance we want to you know let the business kind of just drive

okay so here's the tool business go figure out some things and then you kind of deal with the issues as it comes so you basically do a lot more of the here just go build things that add value to you Mr. company in business because we know you're doing it in Excel anyways. So here here's a tool. >> Go figure it out. And then as you go through then you're like ah shoot we should have turned off pageionate. We should have turned off publish to web. Let's go do that now. So you kind of govern as it happens or govern after the fact. >> Don't recommend that approach. I don't think that's the way to go. >> There's also a hybrid method where you do some governance a little bit of governing and then you open it up and

and let the business build and then you come back and say let's review that governance and build some more governance and go back and let the business build. So I like this handshaking approach. I think this is part of the um this is in the power the fabric adoption roadmap which is describing how to do governance, how you want to roll this out with your your organization. >> I see the the two patterns I probably see the most are organizations that spend >> an inordinate amount of time upfront governing. >> Yeah. >> And then rolling out and then ones that are doing like a little bit of governance, a little bit of building, a little bit of governance, a little bit of building and kind of go back and forth. I feel like personally I like the

approach of doing some level of governance, roll out some solutions, see what you get, get some feedback, then refine the governance model, keep going back and forth. So I don't think you to your point Tommy like do you do this without any governance? No. Do you have conversations while you're building the system? Yes. And I really like this whole idea of like volleying back and forth between leaders, business teams,

business analysts, and the technical side of things and doing a volley back and forth between the both of them because I think that's really where most of the communication and stuff breaks down. It's communicating between people, between teams, and does everyone align on the same definition of how data is being presented and built? >> And I think that's so essential. And I love that you said that because when you work on large projects, especially long data governance projects, one thing that you have to say is a big risk is the fact that data staleness. What we started working on when the project began around our data could be rapidly different by the time we try to finish. And I think that volumeing approach also allows you to be flexible and dynamic as your data changes. Again, this is one of

the things anthropic talks about from an agentic point of view, but this is also something we've talked about for 10 years, which I think is a good leadway into the what this mean around this anthropics agentic analytic stacka.

>> There are four main areas here that I want to dive into you with and they're going from the bottom up here around how do you actually build a agentic analytic stack data foundations that are the canical data sets or semantic models for the single sources of truth. the sources of truth that map questions to actually govern entities. There are skills. So there it comes into play. Good thing we've talked about that over and over again. >> Yep. >> They've and then finally at the end there's a uh validation framework that they have around how they actually evaluate and go through all the things that have been built. And this starts with the data foundations. And again, who right off the beginning they talk about semantic modeling or dimensional modeling as they put it. They they say

both, but Mike, our ability to semantic model, our ability to map entities together and provide these core pieces of truth are now being not validated because they've already been validated, but just reconfirmed, re-emphasized on how important our job is. Number one, whatever we do, whether you build applications in Rafen or you're building things skills or CLI tools or if you're doing things in copilot, if you don't have a good semantic model or you don't have the that structured and uh truly planned out, you're going to fail. You're not going to see success in a business without this heart and soul of what PowerBI and really at this point what data is. So data foundation is the most essential part to build up any agentic solution. Mechanical data sets, enforcing standards, having making sure you have the right artifacts, and

the last thing that they said is treat metadata as a first class product. >> Yep. >> So there's a ton here, Mike. So what were your kind of takeaways from the data foundations layer of the stack? >> I mean, I think they they nailed it right here. their their first comment around their most common failure is the agent can't map some sort of concept revenue to this particular product. You know, it can't map um the the correct table of the column, the metric definition. Um there there was too many candidates for it to actually get the right answer of what the user wanted. >> So their answer to this and I like how they even describe the fix that they found was better. The fix is fewer more heavily governed logical models create a small set of con uh a single source of

the truth data sets that are clearly owned and I this is one of the things I want to really point out here >> clearly owned. So to your point earlier Tommy around defining different metrics across different teams right that is an alignment of who should own the metrics who defines what a lead is which team is using that and then once the definition is created other teams need to adopt and use that definition through their analysis that way when I say leads and you say leads if we're going to talk if our two teams are going to talk leads together we have to at least agree on the definition of what a lead is. So I think this is very important and one of my projects I did back in the past which was master data

management. It was really difficult to get people to own different master data elements of products. This team's finance owns this and sales owns this and engineering owns this. One product you build has many different teams that need to have input and value right >> uh against that item. And so um yeah I thought that was really relevant. Um, >> let's touch on that real quick because >> Yeah, go ahead. >> You mentioned the small set of data, the semantic models, a smaller set of many semantic models. I wonder if this changes how we think about building because this has always been a we've gotten mailbags about this and this is why I wanted to kind of interrupt you here and ask you. People have asked, do I build a large semantic model for many reports? The gold model, thin reports.

Does this fly in the face of this a little or does this kind of cause a little conflict here? Because again, we had we had an episode I don't remember the number about do you build for agents or do you build for humans around semantic modeling. This would be in favor of I'm going to build for models or LLMs where rather than building a giant semantic model that I can build all my reports off for marketing that the course of action should be much more specific targeted semantic models that work better with LLMs that I can still build reports off of. Do you So do you see what I'm saying here? >> Yes, I do. I I would argue the same effect you get out of an agent looking at a model and the same effect as you're getting

users to understand which model to use is incredibly important. I mean >> the number of projects I've been on where everyone's like let's just build the one monolithic semantic model. >> Not really what we want. I mean a lot of times we're talking more about domainbased modeling. Build a domain around something. >> So you know this is the sales model. This is the operation model. Yes, some of that duplic the data may be duplicated across those two different domains. But by defining what is in that

model, you almost have a paired down view of this. Now, >> I'm I'm blurring the line here, Tommy, a little bit between like what's happening in the technical space of like what we actually have today >> in tooling from PowerBI and fabric versus what we actually want. Okay. Okay. So, I'm going to, you know, >> our favorite thing. Yeah. The future. >> Yeah. [music] >> There's there's the dreams. >> Our dreams and Yeah. Dreams and wishes. >> I've said this on the podcast multiple times, Tommy, there is there is the concept of the enterprise semantic model. >> And I'm going to keep throwing this idea out there because I think this is really important. Like if you think about these data domains that I'm talking about here, data domain for sales, data domain for ops, data domain for you know

whatever the fulfillment whatever the whatever the different domains of the business are doing that data exists as part of the whole enterprise solution around all the tables all the data and everything that's going in here. Another point they made in the article here which I thought was very relevant is they said having a single source of truth of data sets that is clearly owned is important and then aggressively deprecating any of the near duplicates >> having physical rollups and caches reduce cost. So grouping or aggregating or in our world we would say having many fact tables in a model and then some of those fact tables being reduced in granularity increases performance making it cheaper and easier to run which is a good thing. So you're balancing that reduced granularity of data in order to

get to the answers that you want but still doing it in a cost-effective way. So these are all like domain specific things and cost balancing optimizations but at the highest level there still is the enterprise data set all the domains all the tables there is some related information across all of these elements across the entire stack and so when I when I look at this going this is what we want and right now fabric doesn't really support the full enterprise

semantic model. We we don't have that level of support. And so what we what we wind up doing is we wind up breaking these large monolithic semantic models down into domain specific things. And there's an underutilized feature, Tommy, that we have here that we don't use in in semantic models that we could >> I wrote it down. Say it. >> It's perspectives. >> I wrote it down. I wrote it down. I [laughter] >> It's like a guessing game. So you knowing >> we can have a domain model that has different views of what data and tables are in it. And this is what metrics view was a while ago but it didn't quite get implemented correctly. So >> perspectives are incredibly important because I have this >> you know you could think of a domain a

data domain as actually being a perspective of the larger enterprise model. So you and when I go back to this anthropic thing which is >> there's this concept of like okay I have the raw fact table with all the data in it non-agregated in any way that's the main table >> but you can use an aggregated form of that table to then build out a page or report or be more proficient but again that aggregation table is just a shadow of the original data set the the original factual table. And so the the question or comment here is how do you stitch all these different kind of elements like how do we how do we manage the entire enterprise semantics? How do we enter how do we manage the domain specific semantics and when a user comes

in they don't probably need the entire model of the enterprise they're probably looking for questions specific to their area and data that's specific to just them. So this is where I think it gets really interesting and this is >> all the all the traditional practices of Kimble and data warehousing. That's what we're talking about. None of this is changing. A lot of people think oh we bring agents we bring PowerBI here. We have to rethink >> how we did all of our data warehousing. No, it's not. It's actually very much the same. It's just done with a different layer of technology. And it's it's hilarious that you said this and I love that you said this because when you really read that can the canical data sets paragraph or section >> your mind goes to well hold on a sec

>> a too big of a semantic model the one semantic model many reports >> for an agent that's probably not the best way to use it because it has too much context. >> Yes. >> So that the gold model thin reports is good for humans bad for agents. But then on the other side of the co token, if I'm building out separate semantic models onetoone, now every semantic model only has a single report. Good for agents but bad for humans building and sources of truth. So you introduce what I wrote down and this is why we've done 539 episodes together among other reasons. But perspectives for agents that's that second layer here where for us to scale and to continue enterprise semantic modeling which is essential we cannot go to oneto one because agents des uh demand it because we're not going

to be able to do our job correctly. So there's that second I think there's this added layer where we need agents to look over the perspectives not just over the semantic model. So that allows us to have a single semantic model perspectives which are going to be more I guess one perspective one report or one to two reports because again it answers specific and targeted questions which is also where the agent would look >> I think again use a fluffy music again because we don't really have that ability today [music] >> but Microsoft if you're listening that's the dream that needs to become a reality. >> Yeah. uh what anthrop anthropics is introducing and then I want to touch on so I love that you said that because I am completely in aligned with with you.

I want to touch on that treat metadata as a first class product here and it talks about coding agents perform well partly because code bases are legible readmes dock strings your warehouse can be just as legible but only if column and table descriptions canical metric definitions grain documentation lineage and ownership and model tearing are maintained with the same rigor as the transformation themselves while it's not necessarily new insight good governance provides critical context and Like I am going to toot my own horn here and call something I mentioned years ago when automated insights came out in PowerBI. If you recall, there's a feature that would look over a page or context and provide insights based on anomalies, trends or KPIs and wasn't very helpful.

One thing I said on this podcast was we needed the ability to wait and to guide those insights which we did not have. It would look over the entire model, but it did not provide in a sense of waiting towards specific tables, specific columns. There was no way to do that. And that section here, the treat metadata as a first class product >> is that what I was saying. So I don't normally do this. I don't normally say I was right about something because honestly few and far between. But in this case, I think this also goes back into they say trade is the first class product. It needs the same rigor. This is the most overlooked because it's not the most attractive. You know, it's it's the one that you don't necessarily see all the flowers from doing the work. But

if you want the agents to work, just like if you have that perspective layer, you need to provide the right documentation. You need to write provide the right guidance and waiting. Say, hey, if someone says revenue or members, give more weight to the, you know, customer table over the, you know, location table, whatever the case may be. You have to guide it that way. This is something that we've been saying anyways and I think this is another part of that data foundation is so important. >> Something you bring up here Tommy that is really interesting that you you made the comment and I what comes to light of mind here and and again I'm going to move down here to the next >> Yeah. Yeah. >> area of sources of writing. Yeah. >> Um >> let's do that.

But so something that comes to mind when you when you said that comment Tommy which was um have you ever have you seen

I think Grock was doing this for a bit um other agents may be doing something similar. There's this concept of we don't really so if the agent is going to pull things out of the model that is non-deterministic it doesn't have a consistent [snorts] um way of getting the information out of whatever that model looking looking at that semantics model layer >> right >> one of the things I've been saying for a while that I think would be incredibly useful here which is I don't want the agent to give me one answer I feel like agents are used to help me create things so if I so if I'm asking an agent to build me a bar chart with something on it. >> Mhm. >> Or I'm looking for an analysis of products over time or I'm looking for I

want the agent to build me like six different versions of the same visual or the same item that I can go use. >> I think this is actually more valuable because the the cost of the agent to build the solution is actually really simple and easy, >> right? >> So why not push the agent to build more of the same kind of solutions? And and one of the things I that I see a lot on these agent pieces are agents do a lot of this which answer did you like agent to build the solution is actually really simple and easy >> right >> so why this which answer did you like give me a thumbs up or a thumbs down on the answer response that's a very low signal back to they gave me two answers

A and B which answer did you like more and you pick one of the two answers >> already you're forcing the user to make a judgment call around greatly missing in a lot of the Microsoft tooling which is instead of trying to give me the one right answer the one right visual the one built solution because again that's what the ultimate goal is instead AI agents should be used to build seven or eight or 10 different visuals of the same thing hey you asked me this question here's six different ways to think about this information. I used this table. I built it as a line chart. I built as a bar chart. I built it as this, this, this. Here's some text output. Which one of these things did you look at that you like,

>> right? >> And what this does is it immediately informs the agent and it gives feedback from the user to say which of the solutions should I be presenting? And so the more you do this, the more you actually have real feedback. Okay, I had this input. I had these five outputs of the five outputs this is the best one and I think that's information that needs to be generated and brought back to models agents semantic model layers so that the users can actually get value from it and this is again when I use data agents when I use other chat bots or other systems none of them seem to give you multiple answers to the same question >> mult okay and it's interesting you say that because I feel like you're talking a little bit here about the queer corpus

that Anthropic is talking about. It's interesting when we're talking about the sources of truth. Yeah. Yeah. >> Yes. Because >> Okay. Can Yeah. Give me a little more here. So, >> well, you're you're kind of on the right track there because the query corpus is like it's basically every query that's been run against the model for all time. >> You know, getting a bunch of different queries against the models or or you know, solutions. But in here they say well we have to understand which of the questions which of the questions resulted with the right SQL statement or output which one actually provided the right output right which one gave me the right answer and I think there's some >> inherent >> feedback loops that are presenting themselves that we may or may not be

using. Right? So, for example, Tommy, if a if an agent gives me the right answer the first time or I work through it with an answer, at the end of that answer, I stop and say, "Reflect on what you did. Update the skill." If I was using a skill, right? There's there's a sequence of things that I do at the end of that that session that I complete. I I tie

off the conversation, move on. If I if I that's that's a signal back to the agent that said that worked. That was the answer. I should not I should never have to click thumbs up or thumbs down >> also. >> Wait, are you saying Wait, you're saying you should not have a yes or no on things? >> No. They So, I think my behavior of how I interact with the output of the agent immediately tells the agent whether or not it was a good answer or not. Because Tommy, you know, you've done this a number of times. You ask the agent to do something, it did something, and then you say, "No, I didn't want that." And then you give it a whole bunch of set of new instructions to do something. Immediately that's an that's a signal

that said whatever the output you gave me was wrong. >> Right. >> Right. And so my other idea here of like having multiple things in front of you having the agent create things. I I think of it as the lousy example I have in my mind here is if I look at PowerPoint PowerPoint >> you have you can have general slides and you can go to the right hand side and say suggest for me templates. And so from those suggested templates, there's like eight templates there and you just pick the one that you like the best for that particular slide. It may not get it right on the first time. It may be three different versions of, you know, the image on the left and the words on the right. I don't like that. I want the

words on the left and the image on the right. Like it just gives you different permutations. Well, the fact that I'm opening that window up and presented with those multiple options. When I select the option, I'm automatically giving feedback >> to say that's the best option for how I want to present my data. So that's what the agents should be doing. The agents should be producing many of the same things and saying you ask this question and this is again this is also when I would say for data agents this should be implemented immediately. Here's my data agent. Ask it a question. Great. I found an answer. Here's the SQL that I ran. Here's a table I produced. Here's four or six visuals that you can pick from that would represent this data. Great. You select the visual you want. Which

one resonates with your story? You pick the visual automatically by picking the visual and giving me some slight choices. It's informing the agent around what what actually added value from the system. Right? Does that make sense? >> Yeah. Yeah, it does. But if I'm hearing you right, you're are you talking about the building of this or the actual production of this? Because I'm going to actually disagree with you if it's the latter. If I actually deploy this with all these options and choices every time a user prompts or puts a question about their numbers, one there could be a ne it could be an erroneous feedback loop because users may not know what they're looking for and then that's providing input to the agent. And then two, I think you're giving too many options to the users.

what you mentioned to me is part of the building and the development of an agent to make sure that when a user asks specific questions they get a specific answer and I think this is so essential because again let's go back to the first part around coding and analytics there's only one answer if I want to say what are my members in Q2 >> yes but that's not something the agent should know like I I think the the core difference that we're talking about here Tommy is I don't want an agent to return that result to me. I want the agent to build the report that has that answer on it or go find that answer from a whole library of reports that has that answer on it already. Like that's that's what I want the agent to go do. I actually

don't want the agent to go through and say, "I've wrote this SQL query. I got this table together. Here's a one-off solution for you." Because now what happens every time I want to ask that question, the agent has to like rethink that whole thing again and reason through it again. And we all know like it reasons through it now. It may give me a different answer in six months when you get a better model. I get better stuff. Like the answer may be totally different. >> I don't like any of that. I want the agent to build me the consistent solution that says >> here's what we here's what we're doing. Here's the options we have. I want to reason with the agent to tell me these things. Also, Tommy, I want to go into a

visual and say like I want to chat to that v. Where did this data come from? The agent should be able to say, I'm going to read the metadata of this visual, find the columns used and the measures used in here. Here's the columns and measures used in this visual. And now I will go trace back through the system and say from this visual to this semantic model, from this semantic model to these columns, from these columns to these data definitions and metadata, like there's a lot of metadata that's probably existing that we're not surfacing in the report, the visual per se. And we should be able to ask the agent to explain the lineage of things. And this is actually one of the items they they called out here which was lineage and transformation graph.

When the semantic layer doesn't cover a question, the lineage and table ranking >> based on a number of references, the agent can then reason about upstream models and give you more context. I think that instills trust in users. And so when I look at really large semantic models, >> that's the challenge users have. The challenge users have is I have these massive semantic models. I don't know where to start. I don't know what columns to pick from. I can't get my output that I want. It get becomes overwhelming. And in the same way, I think the agent gets overwhelmed as well. It does a better job of like maybe reasoning through and it doesn't like get overwhelmed in the same way humans do, >> but we get frustrated, >> right? >> And because it's just too much there.

So, >> they're not going to keep users are not going to keep going back to try to get the right answer, especially if they don't know how it works, right? you you get one or two shots at this. If you don't get it right the first time, >> the second time >> they're going to like maybe try again that second time and then after that if they can't get the answer they want after the second time, they're like, "This thing's junk. I'm not going to use it anymore." And then you walk away from the solution. >> I So, it's funny. I'm reading a book called The Greatest Story Ever Sold, and it's about the internet bubble. >> Okay. >> And as we have this discussion today, I'm seeing so many similarities or crossovers to the problems that I think

we're seeing in the agentic side. Mike, but also too very much on what you just mentioned where or or something we've talked about too, even though the barrier to entry around websites back in the day was so low like for e-commerce, right? It was incredibly low. All you needed you could have a little warehouse like Amazon.com did, which was the universal name, and a website and you could have an e-commerce site. However, users were not willing just to go like a you insert a CD and then you can easily take it out, put a new one in. Every website had its own technical skill or challenges that the user had to navigate. So, even if I could build the website and have the e-commerce site ready to go, are users going to be willing to go from Amazon to whatever

the next one is where I have to put my account information in, I have to navigate this new website, user interface. And to your point, no, most people are not willing to do that. So if you have something where they have to ask the question multiple times and a new co-pilot and a new agent every single time and the interface and the experience is different, they're not going to do that. And this is so important on the in terms of how you build it. And I think just to your point where you have to have the very structured output also the trust for users. Well, hey, we got this answer querying, you know, X, Y, and Z. This is meant to model in this report. For more reference, go here because you have to have that trust, too. Users are not

going to go, I think that number is right. Let me ask it 18 more times. They're going to move on. They're going to go back to the report. They're not going to utilize that. So, I I love that point here. And just on that lineage transformation graph, the I think you know the I don't know the metric goes into I know where to actually get this aggregation from. Um, one thing that I know we're getting close on time. There are a bunch of other things in here, Mike, that I think we need to touch on another day. Um, but I want to kind of end here at least with the sources of truth for me at least >> around this business context. And I would like to read this out because I think this could be a whole series that

we do. And the reason why is one, it's incredibly powerful. But hey, you know what? Let's give each other flowers here. This is something that you and I have done series around have con constantly talked about and this again goes into the sources of truth and one of their things that they've seen uh in descending order of trust business context the layer most teams skip and again this is anthropic speaking here and the one we underrated the longest an agent that doesn't understand your business will answer what the user asked not what they meant it won't know that Q2 launch refers to a specific product that two teams define the same term differently or that a question is being asked because a board meeting is on Thursday. We pipe in company knowledge graphs consisting of index

documentation, road maps, decision logs and our organizational structure so the agent can resolve ambient in references and ask better clarifying questions. So there's a back and forth there. Y the common failure pattern across all four is the same one for data foundations layer poor or stale documentation in bold cloud is useful for closing the gap but the curation of ownership are managed by humans. >> Mhm. >> So this Mike is absolutely essential

when we talk about that we generate documentation with cloud but the own humans have the definition. Mike,

this is talking about here that again the data alone, the semantic model alone is not going to solve your problem. Even if you have the bar chart or ask the questions here, how do you actually incorporate the business context? How do you incorporate the culture into an agent? And this is again people don't find this attractive because it doesn't generate revenue and I can't see it. It's not a viable or tangible thing people hold as a deliverable. But I mean, you're setting yourself up for failure to me without emphasizing this or adding this layer in. >> Yeah. I'm going to keep leaning on this whole idea of like the agents are there to create. They're there to help you build. They're here to help you build the report page. The like the business user context of what I'm trying to ask

for, what this report page means. you agents should be allowing us Tommy to go from um you know three domains uh you

know let me say this way agents should be allowing us to go from 20 domains reasoning about what we can do to get down to six domains simplify right so the agents should be helping us simplify agents should also be helping us figuring out how to do uh reduce grain on tables to become more efficient right but yet still meaning the same thing right >> that's another area that would make a lot of sense here Um, all of this business context and knowledge needs to be stuck in a way that the agents can understand it. And I, and again, I'm going to keep going back to I would rather have the agents building 10 more reports on those those domains that answer very specific questions, right? rather than rather than having a bunch of um agents always asking and trying to

reason through the data and potentially getting to the same or not to the same answers at some point because those 10 reports can be vetted. You can test them. They're very deterministic and their output. And I think one thing that's potentially missing here, Tommy, as you as you mentioned that thing, we don't have a really good way of adding des we have the ability of adding descriptions to reports but not reports and pages. Like think about if you step back from the report layer and say if this report has five pages in it like does that report have a context description? What's the metadata of what's in this report? Page one is an overview of these kinds of things. It answers this kinds of questions. Bing bing bing bing bing. >> Page two is details of this and has

these kinds of filters. It allows you to filter based on this, this, and this. It's designed for digging deep around this type of question, right? We're looking for where sales have gone, which sal what's our pipeline look like, >> right? >> How healthy is our pipeline? That's what this page is designed to do. These are the business logic questions, reasoning

>> is is at a higher level and we're not really incorporating that directly into reports. So somewhere in this is where we have to start giving that that information. And I think that actually leads into our next area which we'll probably have to talk about again later is skills. >> The skills they talk about is >> the the accuracy of what they can return from data >> is very low without the use of skills. And when you incorporate skills around that additional business context, that's when the skills working with the model and the data, right, >> and AI agents, that's when you get really high results. So they were go they're touting their tests their evaluations when they just threw an agent at something it was doing like 21% success but as soon as they added skills

the numbers changed from 21% to 95 up to 100% on certain domains of information. Wow. Like that's a huge improvement. So the addition of skills again skills are those business logic elements. When you do this use this when you do that use this. That's the business context that's being added there. So yeah, that this makes sense, Tommy. If I just gave you a semantic model with no business context, >> you could dig through some things, right? But even even if you were just a genius and could figure out how to make reports and something that looked good, >> what I expect out of that data set and what you find in it may be two totally different things. And this is what the skills is aligning to. The skills is kind of shaping and giving that general

context for both of us. So we understand what does this table mean? How is it being aggregated? How did it get here? And what kind of questions we can answer about that data. So I think this is just emphasizing more of what we should have been doing all along. >> Well, honestly, Mike, are we psychics? Because I want you to go back to I think we can find it on now that you have an agent that built it. When is the first time we talked about agent skills on the Fabric PowerBI podcast, right? Because obviously you have a another podcast around agentic solutions. So I imagine skills come up, but I you and I have been early on kind of touting skills here and now again that gets reinforced. Um before we go because I like I agree

with you. I think that's going to be a part two here because I want to make sure it gets the you know time it deserves. One thing I want to ask you as we close out here around that business context here. I've introduced the concept before around our job around soft data and hard data. Hard data is our relational modeling the things in tabular format but then we have all this soft data in SharePoint and Excel um they talk about you know the Slack meetings powerpoints uh decision logs the organizational structure it's not in necessarily in fabric so to speak in terms of it's in a semantic model but that it still is data and I think I'm going to put this in our topic board but I think do we need to spend more

time around the soft data data and business intelligence now around things that are not tabular, things that are not in a semantic model, but yet are going to provide a better enhanced agentic solutions. We're seeing this with co-pilot already. I think Claude's kind of emphasizing this. So, I think this is another consideration we need to have for the future. But do you have any thoughts there or is that for another day? >> No, I don't have any other thoughts on that one. But I did I did find our one of our earlier episodes uh episode >> 396 uh is one of the episodes that we had. >> Oh wow. >> Fairly long ago. We started talking a little bit about AI skills. Actually that episode was very controversial. It was >> a year and a half ago.

>> Yeah. It was uh C scripting in tabular editor versus view >> fight. [laughter] So so timal view versus tabular editor C# scripting which was like one of our early early ones. So um there's a couple references here to some AI skills that we talked about there. Uh there were some enhanced um Microsoft fabric co-pilot and AI skill previews happening around that time. So some news and announcements there. Anyways, that was interesting. Also randomly side thought here. I went to the uh PowerBI tips [snorts] website. So if you want to go search what we said in the past, if you want to kind of vet so quickly, >> how did we find this so quickly? I I don't have an agent. Sadly, I do not. >> An incredible memory. >> You can go to powerbi.tips.com. We have

a search button. uh not every episode but more of I think the last from 300 and forward I think we have every episode transcribed fully on the website where you can actually go to the website and search specifically words or key phrases and it will talk you'll bring you directly to the point or topic around what we talked about. So incredibly useful if you want like background or information to back up what you're looking for. These are things that we've talked about, we've unpacked and we we put information around it. Also, side note, when I clicked Ctrl+F on the website page and searched for AI skills, uh it was really interesting. Copilot wasn't available. And when I searched for it, as I skimmed through it, there was a co-pilot option

that appeared underneath the finder window on the web page in the edge and said, "Would you like co-pilot to find on this website page where the word AI skill was used?" I thought that was really interesting because um I have never seen that before and so now Copilot is even in your search bar on a web page that will help you summarize things. >> That's hilarious. >> So anyways, wow um really interesting stuff there. So with all that being said, great topic today. >> This article is a must readad and you it's one you probably need to read two or three times to really unpack everything that's in there. It's very dense. >> So the article's in the description of this video if you want to check it out. It's also here in the chat window as

well. Make sure you go read this article. I believe this article is extremely accurate, very useful, and I think it's going to help highlight areas in your business that are weak around analytics or AI or how you're using AI with your analytics. >> So, very, very useful, super good article. That being said, Tommy, where else can you find the podcast? >> See if I still remember this. You can find us on Apple, Spotify, wherever get your podcast. Make sure to subscribe and leave a rating. helps us out a ton. Do you have a question idea or topic that you want us to talk about a future episode maybe around what we're talking about today? Head over to powerbi.tips/mpodcast. Leave your name in a great question. And finally, join us live every Tuesday and Thursday, 7:30 a.m. Central on all

PowerBI tips social media channels. >> Thank you all so much and we'll see you next time.

Explicit measures. Pump it up. [music] Be it high. Tommy and Mike lighting up the sky. Dance to the day. The laughs in the mix. Fabric and A. I get your feels. Explicit measures. [music] Drop the beat now. H feel the crowd. Explicit

measures. [music]

Explicit measures. Drop it loud.
